Reproductive output analysis
================
Miguel Pereira-Romeiro
2024-07-18

## General Overview

This repository contains the data and files used in the manuscript
entitled “Cost of living together: direct and indirect factors
underlying queen reproductive output in polygynous ant colonies”, in
which we investigate the multiple aspects that may drive the
reproductive partition of ant queens in polygynous colonies using
Structural Equation Models (SEM). Scripts were developed using R.

**The manuscript is currently under preparation.**

## Repository structure

### Folders

- data: contains all data needed to perform the analysis.

  - `raw` contains all datasets in ‘.csv’ format and respective
    metadata. Each dataset contains a multitude of information regarding
    samples (each row is a ant queen). the `land_1m.asc` file contains
    the raw raster file of the Mogi-Guaçi Biological reserve, where data
    was collected. This file is currently not available in this
    repository due to its large size, but will soon be available in a
    stable release. Genetic and spatial data used in this study were
    obtained from a previous work on *Camponotus rufipes* and *C.
    renggeri* breeding systems by Azevedo-Silva *et al*. (2020) (data
    collected between 2014/12 and 2015/01).

  - `processed` contains ‘.csv’ files generated by the
    “data_preparation” script and its respective metadata.

- R: contains all scripts necessary for reproducing data preparation and
  analyses used in this study. File numbering indicates the order in
  which each script must be run.

  - `01_data_preparation` utilizes raw data as input and outputs
    processed data, which is used in subsequent analysis. Outputs of
    this script is already available in the `data/processed` folder, so
    running it is optional. **Running this script requires the
    `land_1m.asc` file, which is currently unavailable in this
    repository!**

  - `02_SEM_analyses` contains the Structural Equation Models (SEM) to
    investigate the effect sizes of variables in the reproductive
    partition of polygynous ant queens.

- renv: Contains the library with respective package versions necessary
  to reproduce these analyses.

### Repository download and setup

## Download

The user can download this repo to a local folder in your computer or
clone it.

To clone using github from command line:

``` r
git clone https://github.com/MiguelRomeiro/Reproductive_partition.git your_repo_title
```

To download using R:

``` r
download.file(url = "https://github.com/MiguelRomeiro/Reproductive_partition/archive/main.zip", destfile = "Reproductive_partition.zip")
```

## Setting up working environment with `renv`

The `renv` package sets up your R environment with specific package
versions to ensure that the code is fully reproducible. This achieved by
havin both the folder `renv` and the file `renv.lock` in your root
directory. In order to use it first install it normally using:

``` r
intall.packages("renv")
library(renv)
```

Finally, update your environment using:

``` r
renv::restore()
```

This will load packages from the `renv.lock` file with their respective
versions. The environment is now set up for work!
